# Recipe-Maker
Recipe Maker App with Xcode and GitHub

# Recipe Maker
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/zjm23A811EE>
#### Description: Recipe Maker is an IOS app made with Swift on XCode. This app that implemented bug free code and designed end to end navigation flow allows users to browse recipes, organize them by categories, and view the details of a certain recipe. It provides a basic tab bar, data model, grid layout, AsyncImage and code splitting. It also includes a tab user interface that allows users to switch between different screens on the app. The home screen presents a list of recipes with images. The recipes can be accessed from the categories where the recipes are filtered by the type of meal. I am a personal trainer, so I believe this app is necessary in order to share my healthy recipes with my clients, friends, and the rest of the world. There are a total of 10 different healthy recipes in my app, which I will plan to update every month. These include breakfast options, a variety of healthy drink options, dinner, salad, dessert, and snacks. It can be hard to figure out what to make everyday, or lose track and cheat on your diet, so I made sure to include a diverse menu for people to view.

When you first open the Recipe Maker app, you will see a tab bar on the bottom of the screen that says "Menu", which contain the list of recipies, "Categories", which conatin the list of meal options, like breakfast, dinner, etc. The last option on the tab bar is a heart that says "Loves", which allows a user to save their favorite recipes of the month.

There are 12 files on this project that make the application run. They consist of a "Recipe_MakerApp" and "ContentView" file, which was provided by default in Xcode. The content view shows what the user will first see when opeing the app. The "Tab" file was created in order for the user to see three different options on the bottom of the screen, which are the Menu, Catagories, and Loves. The "FirstPage" file is the presentation of the first opening screen view, which allowed me to Title this page "Recipes". The "List" file shows a list titled "Categories" of different varieties of meals, in which a user can click inside a meal in view a recipe. The "Loves" file allows a user to see what recipe they have added in their loves section. The "RecipePic" file is a file that contains dimensions of the photo that I have chosen for the recipe. It also contains coloring and shadows of the image. The "RecipeContent" file contains the spacing and grid options of the first page view. The "RecipeInfo" is a file that contained multiple strings which provided all of the recipes that are a mix of my own, and others from recipe websites. They provide the user with the description, ingredients, directions, and calorie count. The "Recipe" file allowed me to properly space each section that contained the image, title, description, ingredients, directions, and calories. The "Category" file allowed me to design what the user will see when they click on one of the items on the category lists, and how it is displayed from their view. Lasly, the "Recipe2" file allows the user to view the updated changes anytime made on the UI.

When it came to picking the design of the Recipe Maker app, I wanted something that was fairly easy on the eye and simple. I did not want to make an app that would be difficult to use and make people overwhelmed, so I used white on all of the backgrounds of the app while making the food the only color to pop out and grab attention. When it came to picking the app icon, I chose a bright color green to signify healthy food options, like celery, brocoli, etc. There is also a white cross in the middle of the icon to signify the importamce of health and wellness.
